1. About the CARD, ARO, and RGI

The Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database ("CARD") provides data, models, and 
algorithms relating to the molecular basis of antimicrobial resistance. The CARD provides 
curated reference sequences and SNPs organized via the Antibiotic Resistance Ontology 
("ARO"). These data can be browsed on the website or downloaded in a number of formats. 
These data are additionally associated with detection models, in the form of curated 
homology cut-offs and SNP maps, for prediction of resistome from molecular sequences. 
These models can be downloaded or can be used for analysis of genome sequences using the 
Resistance Gene Identifier ("RGI"), either online or as a stand-alone tool.

The CARD was designed and developed by the laboratories of Drs. Gerry Wright and Andrew G. 
McArthur of McMaster University's Department of Biochemistry & Biomedical Sciences 
(Hamilton, Ontario, Canada) with the help of a global team of collaborators. It is built 
entirely using open source software and tools. This research has been supported by funds 
from the Canadian Foundation for Innovation, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, 
Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Medical Research Council 
(UK), and Ontario Research Fund, as well as a Cisco Research Chair in Bioinformatics 
supported by Cisco Systems Canada, Inc. (Dr. McArthur), Canada Research Chair (Dr. 
Wright), and Killam Research Fellowship (Dr. Wright).

2. Trade Marks and Official Marks

All trade marks used or displayed on the CARD (card.mcmaster.ca) website are registered or 
unregistered trade  marks or official marks of McMaster University. Nothing on the website 
should be interpreted to grant any license to use any trade mark or official mark without 
the express written permission of McMaster University.

3. Copyright and Disclaimer

All of the materials on the website, including but not limited to the CARD, the RGI, and 
the underlying HTML, text, illustration, designs, icons, audio clips, video clips, 
documents, products, software and all other content (the "Materials") are protected by 
copyright and are either owned by McMaster University, provided by the creator for free 
use by the scientific community, or McMaster University has obtained a license to use the 
Materials for their website. Except as noted in the Terms of Use below, specifically 
sections 4 and 5 below, none of the Materials may be copied, reproduced, distributed, 
republished, downloaded, displayed, posted or transmitted in any form or by any means, 
without the prior written consent of McMaster University, or the original creator, where 
applicable. 

The only exception is the distribution of the Resistance Gene Identifier (RGI) software on
the Conda open source, cross-platform, language-agnostic package manager and environment 
management system (https://conda.io/). Conda users are still required to abid by the Terms 
of Use listed, specifically sections 4 and 5 below.

To obtain permission to reproduce material on the CARD website, please send a request to:

McMaster University
c/o McMaster Industry Liaison Office
305 â€“ 175 Longwood Rd South
Hamilton, Ontario L8P 0A1
Attention: Copyright Advisor
E: milodsk@mcmaster.ca

4. Terms of Use for Non-Commercial, Research or Academic Reproduction

All information and the Materials at CARD has been posted to provide the public with 
direct access to information about Antibiotic Resistance. The information and the 
Materials have been posted with the intent that it be readily available for personal and 
public non-commercial, research or academic use by individuals at academic institutions 
only and except where otherwise prohibited, may be reproduced, in part or in whole and by 
any means, without charge or further permission from McMaster University. Any other 
organization must seek to obtain a license described in section 5 below.

We only ask that:

4.1 The Materials not be modified and used "as is"

4.2 Users exercise due diligence in ensuring the accuracy of the Materials

4.3 McMaster University be identified as the source of the Materials

4.4 The reproduction is not represented as an official version of the Materials 
reproduced, nor as having been made in affiliation with or without the endorsement of 
McMaster University

5. Terms of Use for Commercial or Non-Academic Organizations

Use or reproduction of Materials on the site, in whole or in part, by any non-academic 
organization whether or not for non-commercial (including research) or commercial purposes 
is prohibited, except with written permission of McMaster University. Commercial uses of 
the Materials on the site are offered only pursuant to a written license and user fee. To 
obtain permission and begin the licensing process, please contact McMaster University 
using the address in section 3.

6. Disclaimer

The Materials on this site are provided "as is" without warranties or conditions of any 
kind either expressed or implied. To the fullest extent possible under applicable law, 
McMaster University disclaims all warranties and conditions, expressed or implied, 
including but not limited to, implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and 
fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement or other violation of rights. McMaster 
University does not warrant or make any other representations regarding the use, accuracy,
timelines, applicability, performance, security, availability or reliability of this 
website or any of the sites linked to this website, or the results from the use of this
website or any sites linked to this website, or otherwise respecting the Materials on this 
website or any sites linked to this website.

7. Limitation of Liability

Under no circumstances, including but not limited to negligence, shall McMaster University 
be liable for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, incidental or consequential damages 
arising out of the use of, or the inability to use, the website or the Materials.
